TITLE: State ditches plans for WestConnex tunnel sites in Sydney's inner west

SOURCE: The Sydney Morning Herald

URL: https://www.smh.com.au/national/nsw/state-ditches-plans-for-westconnex-tunnel-sites-in-sydney-s-inner-west-20180628-p4zoco.html

The state's roads authority has abandoned plans to dig two tunnel entrances in Sydney's inner west, including one near a primary school, for construction of the final stage of the $16.8 billion WestConnex toll road project following community opposition.

Sites planned for temporary tunnel entrances near Haberfield Public School, and another at Darley Road on which a Dan Murphy's bottle shop sits, will no longer be needed for tunnelling during construction, Roads and Maritime Services has confirmed.

The Darley Road site occupied by a Dan Murphy's bottle store will no longer be used as an entrance for tunneling.

Under the revised plans for the final stage of WestConnex, contractors will use seven sites in the inner west to build the twin tunnels linking the M4 and M5 motorways.

An existing site at Northcote Street at Haberfield that has been an entrance way for tunnelling for the first stage of WestConnex will continue to be used for the M4-M5 link, subject to planning approval. That means residents near the site will have to put up with a longer period of disruption caused by trucks removing spoil from the tunnels.

But a site on Parramatta Road, about 150 metres from Haberfield Public School, will be used for  “lower impact activities” such as site offices, storage and car parking, instead of as a tunnel “dive site”. Another site nearby on Parramatta Road – previously owned by car dealership Muirs – and one at White Bay will have lower impact activities, too.

The $16.8 billion WestConnex toll road project has been highly controversial in Sydney's inner west.

Community group Leichhardt Against WestConnex said the decision to abandon plans for a dive site on Darley Road near the City West Link was a win for local residents, including about 32 homes which would have suffered from noise from around-the-clock tunnelling.

“The community campaign has triumphed over what was a completely inappropriate site selection,” spokeswoman Catherine Gemmell said.

“But even though this is a win for Leichhardt, the project as a whole is ill conceived, and we can't forget the impact on the rest of the inner west.”

The state government had faced paying millions of dollars in compensation to the lease-holders of the Darley Road site. The Dan Murphy's bottle shop on the site has continued to trade despite the uncertainty, until now, that has shrouded the land on which it sits.

Roads and Maritime Services said an “innovative approach” to building the tunnels linking the M4 and M5 had “reduced community impacts”.

But the Greens MP for Balmain, Jamie Parker, said the latest decision demonstrated how "chaotic and short-sighted" the WestConnex planning process had been.

“It’s appalling that the government has squandered a small fortune on plans to develop a dive site [at Darley Road] that they don’t even need,’’ he said.

Two weeks ago, the government awarded the tender for the twin 7.5-kilometre tunnels between Haberfield and St Peters to a joint venture of Lendlease, Samsung C&T and Bouygues Construction. Work to excavate the tunnels is due to start early next year.

Haberfield resident Sherrill Nixon said the ditching of plans for a tunnel site near the public school was a win for the community but locals still wanted to see the fine print to learn what the changes would mean for them.

The abrupt changes to plans for construction of the M4-M5 came as an appeal by the roads authority of a decision to stop it forcibly acquiring land for WestConnex at Rozelle owned by property developer Desane began on Thursday in the NSW Supreme Court.

The case has significant consequences for the government's compulsory acquisition powers.

COMMENTS:

Whose fault is it when you sign a blank check at each election to the same political parties?
Why not vote for the one who offers us the Citizens Initiated Referendum at least you'll have the last word in most of everything and you will be consulted about all the projects.
If democracy is the voice of the people, why accept the will of of the few.
Have you ever ask the question why we the people are excluded from our so-called democracy after an election?

The whole westconnex was a joke. I won't used it after built because of the high toll fee. Take M4 as an example, because westconnex, I could use part of M4 for free. Now, the Parramatta Road is more conjested than before because everyone tried to avoid the toll road and move to Parramatta. Govt spent heap of taxpayer money, caused so much disruption to the public, end up making the conjested road more conjested. Well done!

True. Trains move ten times as many people but they do not move goods around the city or from the west to the port and airport. Sydney is growing from 5 to 8 million people and the ugly reality is that the existing road network will not cope. Freeways like Westconnex as well as new train lines are needed so it is not an either/or argument.

Yeah right Gladys. Every contractor loves a change to their contract by you. Their additional rip-off cost is not subject to original contract pricing so you (taxpayers) pay the exorbitant claim by the contractor which is totally unrelated to rates for work under the original contract. The contractor can claim any cost they wish knowing that their contract has been amended by the Government, with works deleted and additional works required and the original rates no longer appyling. The options are that the Government accepts the huge additional contractor costs or the contractor just walks away. So the taxpayer looses probably hundreds of millions of dollar, either way, because of this incompetent government.

This entire project lurches from one disaster to the next. When is Labor going to stand up and commit to scrap it instead of just hand wringing? Ron Hoenig MP said to parliament that he could think of 'far better ways of setting fire to $20 billion'. If that is so, then let's see a commitment to tear up the contracts.

Labor's inaction for near 20 years was your result Andrew.

The original idea was to dig in both directions from the Dan Murphy site to link up with tunnels dug from Haberfield and Rozelle but the Desane decision may have delayed the start at Dan Murphy's removing any advantage gained from digging from both ends.
The Westconnex inquiry may lay bare the inability of Westconnex or any motorway to move enough people in peak hour, the traffic jams on all the feeder roads and the true cost of the whole disaster.
Trains move ten times as many commuters than a road using the same real estate.

How many are going to catch a train from Annandale to Bexley? And won't the same number of houses be required to be compulsorily acquired whether it's a road or rail underground?

While I generally agree with needing more public transport, it is not a simple case of one or the other. Better public transport (especially rail) is needed in places like western Sydney - maybe better linking growth locations such as Liverpool and Parramatta, places in between and surrounding?

Why does it always have to be one or the other? If they are going to the trouble of building tunnels it should be to serve both road and rail at the same time.

TITLE: Fight to shine light on WestConnex before multi-billion-dollar sale

SOURCE: 9 News

URL: https://www.9news.com.au/national/2018/06/05/13/27/westconnex-road-toll-fight-to-shine-light-on-smc-before-multi-billion-dollar-sale

NSW Labor wants to force what it claims will be greater transparency upon the company responsible for managing construction of Sydney's controversy-plagued $16.8bn WestConnex toll road project.

Since late 2015, the Sydney Motorway Corporation (SMC) has been responsible for all aspects of delivering Australia's largest infrastructure project.

Set up by Liberal Nationals as a private body, Labor has argued the SMC is shielded from certain elements of scrutiny and public requests for information.

A spokesperson for WestConnex Minister Stuart Ayres has refuted suggestions the SMC somehow lacked accountability.

The Coalition government is currently preparing to sell a multi-billion-dollar 51 percent stake of the SMC to a private bidder, with a deal anticipated in the next few months.

Meanwhile, Labor is trying to push through a bill to make SMC subject to what it claimed is the same disclosure as other NSW government departments and agencies.

A roadheader and construction worker work on the eastbound WestConnex M4 tunnel at Concord in Sydney, June, 2017.

"The government knows WestConnex is a dog of a project, and they know there are real problems in the community with it," Labor's transport spokeswoman Jodi McKay told Nine.com.au.

"As we approach the sale … it is really important that we have transparency around the SMC and its dealings."

A spokesperson for Mr Ayres said the SMC and its subsidiaries were corporations registered under the Corporations Act 2001 and complied with all reporting regulations under ASIC legislation.

"SMC financial statements are already audited by the Auditor General in accordance with the Public Finance and Audit Act," the spokesperson said.

The WestConnex project has been burdened by accusations of budget blowouts, poor planning and staunch community opposition in Sydney's west.

In March, 9NEWS revealed drivers who use the M5 Motorway regularly will pay $3040 a year in tolls when WestConnex opens in 2020.

The new stretch of tunnel between Concord and Haberfield, part of the WestConnex project in Sydney. (AAP)

Global giant Transurban is viewed as the frontrunner to buy the controlling stake in the SMC, which would put every WestConnex tolling agreement under its control.

Transurban already controls seven of the nine existing toll roads in NSW, prompting concern from watchdog Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.

A spokesperson from Sydney campaign group, No WestCONnex, said Labor's push for greater clarity of SMC's operations is a welcome move.

"It is ridiculous that we have a project like this, a public project under management of our elected representatives, which is hidden from us," Andrew Chuter said.

Mr Chuter pointed to Sydney's Lane Cove Tunnel as an example of a government infrastructure project "sold off at a massive loss".

In 2010, Lane Cove Tunnel on Sydney's north shore was sold to Transurban for $630.5m - less than half of what the $1.6bn project cost to build.

The price was a result of lower than expected traffic flows through the toll network.

Last month it was reported the second stage of WestConnex could be $700m over-budget and is facing a year-long delay.

TITLE: There’s Progress on the $198 Million Program That Will Spruce Up Parramatta Road

SOURCE: Broadsheet Sydney

URL: https://www.broadsheet.com.au/sydney/city-file/article/198-million-redevelopment-program-will-spruce-parramatta-road

Specific details about the changes slated for western Sydney, as part of the Parramatta Road Urban Amenity Improvement Program, have been released.

The Greater Sydney Commission (which was appointed by the state government) has allocated the first $29 million of funding to local councils as part of the Parramatta Road improvement program. And work will start later this year.

The program is a $198 million project designed to revamp public spaces and support transport along the Parramatta Road corridor.

“These projects will increase the tree canopy, create new and improved parks and open spaces, enhance the streetscapes to encourage activity, improve walking and cycling links along the 22-kilometre Parramatta Road corridor and surrounds,” a spokesperson for Greater Sydney Commission told Broadsheet.

Parramatta Council will build a new urban plaza at Bridge Street for a cool $15.7 million. In Cumberland, $9.8 million has been set aside to upgrade the Melton Street M4 pedestrian and cycleway overpasses as well as an extension to Auburn Park and improvements to Parramatta Road between Braemar Avenue and Station Street.

Canada Bay Council will receive $1.7 million to develop new playing fields on Charles Heath Reserve, and $1.3 million will go to Inner West Council to fund new bicycle and pedestrian connections at Pyrmont Bridge Road and a “pocket park” at Petersham Street.

In Strathfield, bicycle and pedestrian connections along Powells Creek Reserve – including a bridge across Powells Creek – will come in at $740,000, and in Burwood there’s $24,000 allocated to build a formal cycle route from the Luke Avenue and Parramatta Road intersection to Burwood Park. It will incorporate Wangal Park into the regional bicycle network.

TITLE: Peak hour conditions plague some of Sydney’s major roads all day

SOURCE: 2GB

URL: https://www.2gb.com/peak-hour-conditions-plague-some-of-sydneys-major-roads-all-day/

Motorists are having to endure peak-hour conditions on some of Sydney’s roads throughout the entire day.

Military Road on Sydney’s North Shore is seeing congestion from 7am to 6pm, with speeds ranging between 22km/h and 35km/h.

Parts of Parramatta Road in the city’s west see an average of just 16km/h in afternoon periods.

One explanation for the spread in congestion is a change in working arrangements, as Australians reject the 9 to 5 format.

NSW Roads Minister Melinda Pavey says the news is positive and it’s indicative employees are responding to the needs of everyday Australians.

“Credit to bosses, whether they be in the public or the private sector, responding to the needs of the community,” she tells Ben Fordham.

She says the NSW Government has installed over 450km-worth of clearways to improve conditions for motorists.

TITLE: Andrew Constance's $3 billion train backflip

SOURCE: The Sydney Morning Herald

URL: https://www.smh.com.au/national/nsw/andrew-constance-s-3-billion-train-backflip-20180702-p4zp1p.html

Bill Shorten’s pledge to spend $3 billion on a Metro West line between Parramatta and central Sydney has triggered an about-face from Transport Minister Andrew Constance, who has stopped calling on the federal government to help fund the project.

Mr Constance has consistently appealed for federal funds to pay for the rail line, which is badly needed to alleviate pressure on Sydney's over-crowded western rail line.

“Canberra need to seriously start to look at this project to make this work" Mr Constance told the Herald on Thursday. "If I can get Canberra also interested in this it has the potential to be even more fantastic,” he said of a rail project he has championed.

But after Labor leader Mr Shorten promised $3 billion for the project on Sunday, Mr Constance, while alongside his federal Coalition counterpart Paul Fletcher on Monday, repeatedly declined to advocate for funds.

“I'm very happy with the way in which the national government is investing in infrastructure in this state,” Mr Constance said.

Mr Constance and Mr Fletcher instead criticised Mr Shorten, and NSW Labor’s infrastructure record.

“You're untrustworthy when it comes to these dollars because your state counterparts when they were last in office promised all of these projects and didn't deliver a thing,” Mr Constance said.

Bill Shorten put the internal chatter over his leadership behind him to deliver a rousing battle cry for the next election.

Under Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, the federal government has pledged no funds for Metro West.

It has committed an unspecified amount of money to a rail line connecting to an airport at Badgerys Creek. Mr Fletcher said the federal government had committed to 50/50 funding with the NSW government a rail line to the airport, to be running when the airport opened.

As well as promising $3 billion for the Metro West project, Mr Shorten also promised $3 billion for rail links around the airport, and $300 million for commuter car parks near rail stations.

Mr Fletcher and Mr Constance said Mr Shorten’s $3 billion promise was not enough to build the volume of rail lines he promised around western Sydney airport. Federal Labor’s transport spokesman, Anthony Albanese, said “of course” the funding promise was meant as a contribution, not to cover entire project costs.

“What we have is $6.3 billion more on the table than the federal government and if the NSW government were serious about the interests of western Sydney they’d be welcoming the funding announcement and arguing that the Commonwealth should match it,” Mr Albanese said.

The Turnbull government could yet commit funds to a West Metro line before a federal election. If it did, it would please Mr Constance, who has in the past argued Metro West was the city’s highest transport priority.

“If you feed into the Western Line airport commuters and any growth along that corridor, you're going to end up in strife," Mr Constance told the Herald last year, citing the the risk that building a rail line to a Badgerys Creek airport ahead of a Metro West line would overwhelm the existing rail network.

And in an interview with the Herald on Thursday, Mr Constance said federal government funding could help add “passing loops” to enable faster journeys between the city and Parramatta. “I want Canberra to come to the table so we can consider it," he said.

But on Monday, he said the federal government’s $10 billion spending on infrastructure in western Sydney – which includes the airport, as well as more than $3 billion in roads around the airport – allowed the state government to plan and build Metro West. The project is scheduled to be finished late next decade.

"Paul's right," Mr Constance said of Mr Fletcher. "Look at what they are investing across the board, in the knowledge that we have the capacity as a result of that to get on and build Metro."

The West Metro line would run from Westmead through Parramatta, Sydney Olympic Park and the Bays precinct around Rozelle. It will also include some interim stops, potentially connecting to the existing Northern Line, at Camellia or Rydalmere, and at Kings Bay or Five Dock.

Mr Shorten campaigned on the Central Coast on Monday, touting his promised funding for commuter car parking.

TITLE: More stops or faster travel? The Metro West debate we need to have

SOURCE: The Sydney Morning Herald

URL: https://www.smh.com.au/national/nsw/more-stops-or-faster-travel-the-metro-west-debate-we-need-to-have-20180704-p4zphe.html

The state government's determination to deliver below 20-minute trips between Parramatta and central Sydney on its proposed Metro West rail line is set to limit the number of stops along the line.

According to Transport Minister Andrew Constance, fast journey times are one of two main objectives of the project, along with relieving pressure on the over-crowded T1 Western Line.

The drive to secure fast trips on the Metro West rail line could disappoint groups calling for new stops.

But the drive to secure fast trips could disappoint an increasing number of interest groups clamouring for new stops, as well as those advocating for easier access around the inner west.

Martin Locke, adjunct professor at the Institute of Transport and Logistics Studies at the University of Sydney, said he would like to see more debate about criteria used to select stations.

"I had some students looking at this whole issue. They came up with some really clever criteria, linking in with the vision of Transport for NSW," said Mr Locke.

"There's always some element of subjectivity, but we should try to be at least transparent."

For his part, Mr Constance has been clear speed is an imperative.

The Sydney Metro West mega railway project will include an underground station at Westmead, delivering more travel options to greater Western Sydney. Source: NSW government/Sydney Metro

"My clear aspiration is a sub-20 minute Parramatta CBD journey," Mr Constance told the Herald.

"That for me is the big advantage of the project, and easing the pressure on the T1 Line. They're the main goals."

Lucy Turnbull, the chief commissioner of the Greater Sydney Commission, also emphasised speed.

"There needs to be a high level of temporal connectivity between the eastern city, the central city to the parkland city," Ms Turnbull told the Herald.

The government has committed to stops at Westmead, Parramatta, Olympic Park, the Bays Precinct around Rozelle, and one of either Concord West or North Strathfield on the existing T1 Northern Line.

It has also mooted stops at either Camellia or Rydalmere, North Burwood or Five Dock, Kings Bay and Pyrmont.

In recent transport projects, the government has tended to favour fewer stops for faster trips.

The light rail line between Circular Quay and the eastern suburbs, for example, has shed a stop once planned around World Square. There will also be only one tram stop in Surry Hills.

For the metro under construction between Chatswood and the Sydenham, there will be one stop – at Waterloo – in a five-kilometre stretch south of Central.

Philip Thalis, an architect and urban planner, said the government was "over-emphasising travel time at the expense of other criteria such as urban integration, interchange opportunities, catchment and patronage".

"There's no magic per se about 15 or 20 minutes' trip time if you bypass areas in need of improved public transport," said Cr Thalis, also a City of Sydney councillor.

Labor's transport spokeswoman, Jodi McKay, said the opposition was "not wedded to a journey time of 20 minutes".

"For us it is about having public transport where you don't have public transport, and also looking at the issues on Parramatta Road," Ms McKay said.

Ms McKay said a potential stop at Sydney University, as opposed to the Bays Precinct around Rozelle, should be "in the mix".

"We are keeping an open mind," she said.

Mr Constance has flagged the possibility of combining the best of both worlds: using "passing loops" to enable fast trip times, while also providing for more stops.

He has said federal funding could help pay for those passing loops, though, when the federal Labor Party promised $3 billion for the Metro West line, Mr Constance declined to repeat his request for funding.

A "passing loop" approach would please Mr Thalis, who said there was an "obvious need" for stations "in Pyrmont, Five Dock and Concord – which has one of the lowest levels of public transport use in the inner suburbs".

"Why would you bypass areas when you are having a metro running straight through it?"

COMMENTS:

I am surprised they have not thought of the obvious solution which is to have no stops between Parramatta and the CBD. Now that would be fast for the few people using it.
The reality is that a transport system is supposed to move people from where they are to largely where they want to go. 5km between stops is simply ludicrous. Add stops and and some overtaking

I love seeing the pictures of the empty train. The Premier and Transport Minister obviously have never travelled on trains in peak hour!

There is no seating available in peak hour unless you get on at the beginning. If one is standing while the train shudders around areas and stops more people will get injured (who does one sue?) and, as many will be driverless who do you call in an emergency and how does someone get to the injured person?

Another bad idea from a bad Government.

Or how about a system like New York - four tracks - two express - two local - switchable at various points. So long as our government keeps doing less than we and they know is appropriate .....

A single tram stop through the entire Surry Hills? Defeats the spirit of a tram line.

Our whole public transport is a fiasco. With our massive population growth anything we do is just playing catch up and we are not doing that too well. State governments are the big losers with our federal government obsession with having a "Big Australia". They are the ones that have to supply the infrastructure and services all these extra people require.

A metro line is not for fast trips. Build more metro lines covering the inner west (and east and south), and close the inner west heavy rail line, making it for faster trips from the greater west to the city.

A simple solution would be to create "two metros in one" by having express tracks through the intermediary stations, so the express trains can overtake the all stations trains, which would then slot back in behind the express trains until the next station. As it is all computer controlled, operationally this should be quite simple, but of course would cost most than the basic model proposed by the current government.

That's what the mooted passing loops are for.

A simple solution would be to get the trains we already have running properly and on time without all the delays and cancellations. How on earth constance & glad expect to put even more trains on with faster times when the ones we already have don't do even half the job beats me.

TITLE: Future of Cronulla Park reviewed: Logan City Council LIVE

SOURCE: The Courier Mail

URL: https://www.couriermail.com.au/questnews/logan/future-of-cronulla-park-reviewed-logan-city-council-live/news-story/f353e08bd8c5e1d4d06d388379b044eb

THE future of Cronulla Park in Slacks Creek will be discussed at Tuesday’s council meeting.

It comes after a proposed greyhound racing track at the site was scrapped earlier this year by the state government following a local campaign.

The proposed development at Springlands Drive, Slacks Creek, will also be considered.

Last week at the Council’s committee meeting the development brought on a heated debate with six councillors voting against.

The meeting will also review the Logan and Albert River Catchment Action Plan, developed as part of the broader Resilient Rivers Initiative.

The plan aimed to combat erosion and keep sediment from waterways through restoration projects and control measures.

TITLE: Sporting groups eye off vacant land after greyhound track plans ditched

SOURCE: The Courier Mail

URL: https://www.couriermail.com.au/questnews/logan/sporting-groups-eye-off-vacant-land-after-greyhound-track-plans-ditched/news-story/1c79e6f28629bc91a02aa0ba8913b56f

LOGAN sporting groups are fighting for more space, with many casting their eyes towards Cronulla Park.

Logan City Council proposed a Centre of Excellence for Women’s Sport at the park in Slacks Creek this month.

Mayor Luke Smith said he wanted Logan to be Australia’s hub for women’s sports.

Plans are yet to be approved, as council officers investigate options for the 10.2ha site.

Cr Lisa Bradley (Division 1) said the centre did not reflect the wishes of residents after she received more than 500 responses to an online survey.

The top choice was a PCYC with one local user group.

Mike Potter, of the Springwood Bowls Club, said their only options left were Underwood Park or Cronulla Park. “Local clubs are screaming for more space. Cronulla Park is a large piece of land – we are keen to move there if we can fit.”

TITLE: Mayor blames poor communication for Cedar Grove sewage plant fiasco

SOURCE: The Courier Mail

URL: https://www.couriermail.com.au/questnews/logan/mayor-blames-poor-communication-for-cedar-grove-sewage-plant-fiasco/news-story/9c9fd6a8c3cf903e09a194500f571b46

LOGAN Mayor Luke Smith has fired a volley of warnings to staff about better public consultation.

His salvo came after council made an initial decision on Monday to put a proposal for a sewage treatment plant at Cedar Grove out for public notification in February. He said poor communication had plagued the proposed sewage plant.

“It seems to me that every time there is community unrest, it’s simply because we haven’t engaged the community well enough.”

He was referring to council sending letters to Cedar Grove residents to explain how their suburb was chosen to house the facility instead of having “proper” meetings in the community.

Cedar Grove Action Group spokeswoman Debbie Brezac said residents were major stakeholder in the community and wanted input in the plant’s design.

“I want to be part of a reference group the council hopes to establish,” she said.

Council also made an initial decision to notify neighbours and residents during the 20-day notification period but it decided not to put alerts on rates notices going to properties near the plant.

Division 5 councillor Jon Raven said such a move was premature.

“It’s not legal for council to give that detail but once the plant is approved, it will be on public searches

TITLE: Multi-million dollar fire station planned for Yarrabilba

SOURCE: The Queensland Times

URL: https://www.qt.com.au/news/multi-million-dollar-fire-station-planned-for-yarr/3439638/

PLANNING is underway to construct a new multi-million dollar fire station at Yarrabilba.

The State Government has allocated $5 million in the coming years towards the provision of equipped Queensland Fire and Emergency Services (QFES) facilities to service the community of Yarrabilba and surrounds.

The funds were allocated from the 2018-19 State Budget, which will be handed down by Treasurer Jackie Trad today.

The new auxiliary fire and rescue station at Yarrabilba will be built to provide extra space for appliances, equipment and supplies for QFES personnel.

Also included in the budget was money to make improvements to the Logan Village Rural Fire Station. They will receive a $250,000 upgrade and a $750,000 vehicle.

Fire and Emergency Services Minister Craig Crawford said the State Government's "record funding announcement for QFES demonstrates its commitment to meet Queenslanders' current and future needs by delivering quality facilities".

"This government understands the needs of the community and is committed to providing fire and emergency services with practical support," he added.

QFES Commissioner Katarina Carroll said the upgrades were a welcome addition to QFES' growing presence in southeast Queensland.

TITLE: What the Queensland 2018 budget means for the south-east

SOURCE: Brisbane Times

URL: https://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/national/queensland/what-the-queensland-2018-budget-means-for-the-south-east-20180612-p4zkwc.html

South-east Queensland's Cross River Rail underground rail project is finally under way.

Tuesday's 2018-19 state budget includes $733 million of the $5.4 billion total cost of the project.

The budget also includes $2 million to begin planning the third stage of the Gold Coast light rail project from Broadbeach south towards the Gold Coast Airport.

It includes details of the waste levy that begins at $70 a tonne for general waste, but increases by $5 each year.

The government will advance $32 million to councils - who will charge the levy - to cover the upfront costs of implementing it.

The Sunshine Coast is closer to having Australia's newest submarine internet service telecommunications cable come ashore.

The budget provides $15 million to help Sunshine Coast Council push ahead with the final design of its international bid, as well as $200 million to continue widening the Bruce Highway near Caloundra.

For Logan, there is money for new primary and secondary schools at Yarrabilba.

COMMENTS:

I've been critical of this government before, but positive about the public and active transport infrastructure projects here.

A lot of money for southeast Queensland but what about the rest of the state?

More debt for QLD. Labor only know how to spend, spend, spend.